I'm going to dictate some things about the GIN machine to be transcribed into understanding of the way the process works.

TC1, Thermocouple 1, and FT1, Flow Transmitter 1, and PT1, Pressure Transmitter 1, are connected to the liquid heat exchanger. That's Liquid-Hex in the system. That also has a heating element to it, which provides the energy to increase the temperature. In operation, we turn the pump on, which is Liquid-Hex-Pump. We turn the heat on. The heat is only allowed to be turned on when the flow transmitter, FT1, shows that there's a positive flow. That means that there's liquid recirculating, and it won't overheat or cause a problem. The pressure transmitter gives an active sense of what the pressure in the system is, and we will ultimately introduce an overpressure trip at some point, but not just yet, because overpressure is not good, overtemperature is not good. The liquid heat exchanger currently runs at about 110, 112 degrees, and the flow transmitter, FT1, has a permissive that there needs to be at least three liters per minute of flow before you're allowed to turn the heat on. The vapor heat exchanger is an analog of heat exchanger, the liquid heat exchanger. It has TC2, FT2, and PT2, that are very similar, except for the set point of that system is currently at about 89 degrees Celsius, but otherwise those systems work in the same way.

Both of those heat exchanger systems heat the jackets of different chambers in the process, so I'll come to describe that later. There's a boiler. The boiler provides vapor, alcohol, and water into the system. It is heated by the boiler heat, and the temperature of that is Tc4, and it has Pt3 as its pressure transmitter. There's a valve from the feed pump, P1, and then there's an outlet. So the inlet valve is V1, and the outlet valve is V2, which allows the vapor to leave. There's LiT1, which is a level indicator, which gives the active level within that system. P1 has a PID controller, which controls the flow rate of alcohol from the feed drum into the system to maintain a consistent level within the boiler of about 185 millimeters as the set point. The feed drum sits on WIT1, which is a load cell, which is a IND560 from Mettler Toledo. The outlet vapor goes into a distributor, and without any control, or there's a valve that splits between, that is on one side of that feed stream, V8, and V8 opens up the B side of the system to B side of the liquid system to vapor, and the A side of the liquid system is always exposed. The A and B side aren't valved off, they're just separated at the bottom, and they come together above the heated, the jacketed heat section, and that's where the liquid heat exchanges are providing a constant flow of heated heat exchange fluid around the outside of the A side and B side of the liquid sections. LIT2 sits inside the A side of the liquid section, and gives an indication of whether there is a level of liquid that has formed inside of the liquid sections from liquid that condenses inside the system and drains back into the liquid section. On the B side of the liquid section, at the top, there is a thermocouple, that is TC8, and that gives an active measurement of what the temperature of the vapor leaving the liquid section is. The A side and the B side of the liquid section join back together, and that is, they join back together before they feed up through the V4A and V4B valves that go into the vapor section.

The vapor section both has an A and a B side. These are controlled by the AB sequencer. So there are inlet valves to the A side and B side. These are V4A and V4B and outlet valves. These are V5A and V5B. Between those two valves, there is a jacketed heated section, which is heated by the vapor heat exchanger. So in this case to 89 degrees on the jacket. At the top of this chamber prior to the exit valve, there is a blank, a flange that has a thermocouple near it. And that thermocouple on the A side is TC9 and on the B side is TC10. That gives an active measurement of the temperature within each of those chambers when they're online and offline. And that flange provides the entryway when the valves to that chamber are closed for the user to change the botanicals, where they put the botanical mixture of our gin into that flange. And we call that bag of botanicals. We put in there a teabag or a bag or a batch of botanicals, whichever describes it. We use different words, but to describe an amount of the botanicals. And they are cycled when those valves are closed, and that's the purpose of the AB sequencer. And so that's physically at the highest point of the process, as the vapor side is a little cooler than the liquid side. And there's heat losses that occur through the system in parts of the system where the pipes aren't heated. And from the process of distillation, there's liquid that condenses in the vapor section or in the pipework that joins the liquid and the vapor section. It drains under gravity from the top of the vapor section all the way down into the liquid section, where the liquid section at 110 degrees, 112 degrees, reboils that liquid. There's also a drain that is connected to the feed rail of the liquid section A and B. That is V3, so that if too much liquid accumulates in the liquid section, you can drain it out there by opening and closing that. We will create a sequence in time where if LIT2 goes too high, that it will trigger a short period of time, five seconds or so, which will be configurable to open V3 and let some of that liquid out. V8, which joins the liquid section, or it directs a proportion of the vapor from the boiler to either the A or B liquid side, that nominally is 40% open in operation to direct that flow. In cleaning operations, it's 100% open to allow full passage of liquid out of the system.

V5 A and B represents the high point in the system. On the outlet side of V5 A and B, those two outlets join back together again, and then it proceeds vertically and down from this point so that any heat losses or formation of liquid from this point down end up in the product. So the stream after joining splits up again and goes through V6 A and V6 B, where we have two banks now. These are the copper banks, as we call them. They are two chambers in parallel with V6 A joined to V7 A, V6 B joined to V7 B, which provide two chambers that are filled with copper packing. That packing provides a catalytic surface for conversion of alcohol and some of these flavour and aroma compounds into esters, which provide a nice smell and sweeter taste than their acids. It's a little bit of a black art there, but there is definitely a reaction that occurs between copper and the spirit. So at the outlet of those chambers through V7, they join back together again. There's a pipe that then is directed into the condenser. The condenser is fed with water from the chiller. There's two thermocouples, an inlet and an outlet thermocouple, and a flow transmitter, FIT2. The thermocouples for the chiller water are inlet TC5, outlet TC6. So between the temperature difference between five and six and the flow rate, you can calculate the wattage of coolant that's being consumed. And the outlet of that condenser, there is a parrot, which is a vapour lock or a vapour trap that provides a design. You can look it up on the internet where only liquid will then leave out of that system and that leaves into a product drum, which sits on WIT2, which is the IND231 load cells. And in time, we will hook up overweight and underweight signals for WIT2 and WIT1, respectively. Periodically, the copper sequencer ensures that only a certain quantity of spirit is passed through the copper as it gets consumed catalytically. And when those chambers are offline, that copper is taken out mechanically by the user and cleaned and changed with fresh material.

The A-B sequencer is set by the user to control the quantity of product, as measured by WIT-2, that each period of operation that a chamber is exposed, so those botanicals inside that chamber, the amount of alcohol that is produced off one individual bag or batch or quantity of botanicals, and once that amount is reached, that's when the A-B sequencer automatically changes over to the fresh botanicals on the other side, which is why they need to be fresh as opposed to spent, and we need to have that sequencer sophisticated so that it can provide feedback to the user in case there needs to be a warning in terms of time when the fresh botanicals need to be put into the system, and similarly on the copper, which lasts longer because there's more copper in that system, there needs to be a count in the copper sequencer using a different quantity that tracks how exposed that copper is to its amount, so nominally 2.5 kilos of product for the botanicals and 10 kilos at this stage for the copper, and these will be numbers that may evolve and change over time as we learn more.

The botanical recipe that is used per 2.5 kilograms of spirit, so at the moment that is one unit of botanicals in each of the AB banks for the botanicals, is 98 grams of juniper, 24 grams of coriander, 10 grams of bitter orange, 5 grams of lemon myrtle, 1 gram of star anise, and 1 gram of orris root. That is measured in scales separately and placed within a nylon mesh bag in preparation for the periodic changeover.

The chiller, which communicates with the control system currently to provide feedback on the recirculating water temperature and the set point of the chiller, and ultimately we're looking to have the ability to turn on the recirculation pump and the cooling elements by the control system as well, is a Linbell DLSB series chiller and it operates via Modbus with the control system. Its nominal set point temperature is 10 degrees, which is sufficient to ensure that all of the spirit that's generated is condensed within the condenser. That's a safety point, if that's not working, you can end up with alcohol vapor that won't get condensed through the chiller, which can cause a safety hazard. So there's both flow requirements in terms of FIT2 needs to have a flow of at least three liters per minute, and in combination with the outlet temperature of the condenser needs to be less than 20 degrees and should be set as a permissive within the system as a prerequisite for putting on heat in the startup process. That way there can't be heat going into the system if the condenser isn't set to be able to condense the product.

The start-up process for the GIN machine involves turning on the chiller, confirming the recirculation flow, turning on the cooling to ensure that the temperature, the cooling is there and that the chiller is below the minimum temperatures required for operation, then turning on the heat exchange pumps, which is liquid heat exchange pump and vapor heat exchange pump, turning the power on to the PID pump, which is P1 power. Once confirming that the flows for the heat exchange loops liquid heat, which is FT1 and FT2, you can then turn on the heat to those recirculating systems, which provides the heat to heat up the heat exchanges to get their temperatures up. Once you have the heat for the heat exchanges that is on, you are then allowed to turn on the heat to the boiler. With the heat on the boiler, you are able to then open the feed and product valves, V1 and V2. The position of V8 when V2, the outlet, is on should be set to 40%. V3 should be closed. And the system should then heat up and vapor will start to be produced from the boiler somewhere around 85 to 95 plus degrees Celsius, which will be seen in the data when TC4 starts to level out. That's when you know you should be theoretically producing vapor. When V1 is open, you should enable the pump release, which is P1ST.

Prior, there is a HotStandby function, which allows the control system to have the heat for the heat exchangers on, there's no damage that can be done so long as they don't over-temp, and they should not over-temp because they've got heat temperature controllers, so that the boiler, which doesn't have an external temperature controller, is held within a couple of degrees of a set point at any time, and can then just sit in that mode, awaiting the user to release the system into production, where the boiler is put on at a constant wattage, which is determined from an external phase controller at this point in time. Once the system is released, the user should make sure that the botanicals are loaded into each of the chambers, and that the fresh botanicals are noted on the drop-down on the user interface. That fresh flag is a prerequisite for the control system exposing a bank and bringing it online by opening the V4 and V5 valves. When a bank goes from being offline to being online, its flag is changed from fresh to in-process, while it's operating for that two and a half kilos current set point. Once that bank is depleted and the control system switches over to the fresh column, that botanicals flag is set to spent. We will improve over time some of the control around that, where the control system and GINI can provide user feedback and advice, whether it be messages or alarms, email notifications around expected times when the current spent bank will need to be replenished by to enable the system to continue to operate. But I think as well, what we want is the system to go into a hot standby, close the outlet vapor valve in particular, and the feed valve leave the boiler completely isolated. So the system is safe while it waits in a hot standby for the user to come by, replenish the botanicals, flag it as fresh, and allow the system to be released and to continue production so that if it finishes at three or four in the morning or something like that, we leave the system in a hot state so that immediate once those botanicals get refreshed, the system can proceed and keep producing.

When the user has decided the production is finished, the key first steps are to turn off the boiler heat, at which point V1 and V2 will automatically close and isolate the boiler. Turn off the heat to the liquid heat exchanger, the vapor heat exchanger. Leave the pumps running for those systems to naturally cool down to a point where they are in the most suitable state, below 50 degrees Celsius, where you can turn off those pumps. Open V8 to 100%, allowing full liquid communication between the liquid sections. You can ask the user to ensure that there is a waste drum below V3, and open V3 to allow all the liquid in the system to be released into a waste drum. The user can close V5A and V5B, open V4A and V4B, which lines the system up for cleaning in that state, with V8 100% open and all of the AB sequencer botanical banks completely open. The user, at that point, should open the flanges for both Bank A and Bank B, extract any of the spent botanicals that are in the system. The user can separately manage the copper replenishment inside of the copper system, subject to their own schedule. The chiller cooling can now be turned off as there's no new vapor being produced, and the recirculating fluid can be turned off, which will be verified by the FIT2 going to zero or near zero. The product drum can be removed from underneath on WIT2, and the parrot can be drained and the liquid in that can be poured into the product drum. At this point in time, all the liquid inside the system will well and truly be drained out. Close V3 and you fill the system through the manual water filling system until the water is seen through the viewports in the botanical chamber in Bank A and B. Turn the water off. You allow the water to sit and soak up some of the heat from the liquid and vapor heat exchangers, and then you open V3 to dump all the water out. Now, in that filling process, what will occur is that LIT2 will progressively increase and go off scale above 420 millimeters. As it empties, that liquid level in LIT2 will, of course, go back down to zero. As all the liquid drains out, that'll be an indication for GINI that the system has been drained once as a cycle in that cool-down phase. There'll be signs of that, that the liquid heat exchange, the vapor heat exchange, TC1 and 2, those temperatures will be dropping, the heats will be off, the boiler will be isolated and closed. TC9, TC10 will be removed from the system, so they will be getting very cold. So there's lots of data that will give away that that's what's going on. And then the user will do, after V3 is closed again, they'll fill the liquid system up again with water, let it sit for a little bit. LIT2 will go off scale high. Then they'll open V3, let all the liquid drain out. LIT2 will go very low, and the system would then be left in that state, draining with V3 open to ensure that any liquid inside the system just drains out progressively. The user can place the flanges on botanical bank A and B and reinstate any of the thermocouples, et cetera, in their correct positions. And at that point, when the thermocouples in the heat exchange systems 1 and 2 go below 50 degrees, the pumps can be turned off. This could be managed by Ginny as well.

Alcohol in the feed drum is made by blending 60% ABV mixture of water and alcohol. When using 100% pure alcohol the simple way to do it is to use any measuring device. Typically we have a 3 litre jug or a 2 litre jug near the gin machine and you progressively refill the feed drum. It can be online while it sits on WIT-1 with one jug of alcohol, one jug of water, one jug of alcohol, one jug of water, one jug of alcohol. The ratio of three units alcohol to units water is a 60% ABV mix.

The mass of those 15 litres of volume is under 15 kilograms. So the user could be prompted by Gini that when WIT1 gets below 4 kilograms, where the drum itself weighs about 1 kilogram typically, that the user would be able to refill the feed drum and that that 15 litres of quantity would be able to fit. The product drum holds about 17 kilograms of product, and so the user should also be prompted that when the weight of WIT2, sustainably for significant periods of time, so over a minute, so it's not just if someone touches it or just balances, but if WIT2 gets above 16 or so, to just give the user a prompt that they might consider changing the product drum.
